data-cleaning-new-data-set-ipynb
 - Contains the premilinary data cleaning.

If you want to run it and get a feel of how the changes the happened then delete the new-data-set folder and rename old-data-set and run the program in jupyter notebook and see the step by the step process.

The data that we have got

contains the same 'State/UT' column name across all the files
contains 35 states and union territories under that name
contains null values for states whose information is not present


We need to select around 10 around attributes. 
Some of them are
no. of schools
no. of teacheres
no. of students and so on

The above listed need to be normalised against the population of state. I have collected the state population details. I will upload it and will normalize.

Look for other attributes and come up with the ones that we can use.


One approach that we are trying to do is to use Tableau software.

Meanwhile, we are trying to make sure that it is possible to do using web front end technologies.

Looked at the tutorial from the following site which uses leaflet libraries

http://leafletjs.com/examples/choropleth/

Trying to download the geoJSON details for india state map and will have a prototype ready as a backup



Attributes to be selected
-------------------------
People of age between 3 and 20 are taken and they are estimated as expected number of students in each state
The 3 attributes are normalized per 100 expected students. The number can be increased for a better representation if needed

Faculty strength
-------------------

no. of schools
no. of teachers
trained teachers percentage - sometimes schools would not have teachers without appropriate degree (msc, med , mphil)
Full time teachers vs contract ?? Female vs male (this refers the stability of the teachers, which inturn is a good measure). the teachers would continue doing the stuff if it is full time

Reg students
-----------------
no. of students
students passed percentage - students who passed out of all the students enrolled
students drop out rate -students who are not failed but dropped out in the middle

school Indicators
--------------------------------
literacy-rate - how many of them are educated. This is an indicator of how well they have done in the past.
basic facility - drinking water, Toilet facility, hand wash facility, electricity, boundary wall)
playground facility
Good Building percentage - compute only pukka and divide by total no. of schools. pukka means concrete buildings
Computer facility (take the latest data)
Computer aided ?? - CAL for only upper primary schools and there is library facility. What does that mean?
Mid day meal - one meal or two provided by schools (govt) during their study period. Most students or children are sent out to work rather than studying because parents were not able to afford food for them

Govt role
------------
Govt vs Private ?? - govt - funded by govt. means less fee, shows the govt. involvement. Private - is good for english education, good teaching ??? (some people have strong preference and opinion)
text books received - refers to the role of the govt. in taking care or spending expenditure in making sure that students get school books



Our story:
------------

How people can get benefitted by using this tool?
Let us say, somebody is migrating to a new state - Bihar people moved to kerala and other states for construction purposes. To Mumbai, lots of people moved there. 
People who are the above poverty line and lower middle class that is where large numer of people fall into

Interstate migration :



Look at the gini coefficient and see what all factors are done by almost all of the states good and bad as well. And see what can be done? Otherwise look at the highest gini index and see who is good at what?

North, South, East and West - on specific criterions

Don't get into Gender (male and female), Rural and Urban, language analysis. Since our data does not speak about it


